# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

-   [App Design](#app-design)

    -   [Architecture](#architecture)

    -   [Implementation](#implementation)

    -   [Figma](#figma)

    -   [UI](#ui)

-   [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

    -   [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

    -   [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

    -   [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

-   [Scrum](#scrum)

    -   [Documents](#documents)

    -   [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

The diagram has 3 layers good. With react the view and viewmodel are very close to each other but you still manged to show that there is a difference, which is good.
But the interaction between the model and the res of the app is not clearly explained in the diagram. What is the difference between a User and a Tenant, you did not mention Landlord at all. These relationships need to be clarified for a better understanding of the overall architecture.

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

createUserWithEmailAndPassword was used great!
All sensitive data properly safeguarded using crypto, secure APIs, etc.
Requested permissions are truly needed

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

The "old wireframe" counts as the wireframe for grading. Then we agree that the wireframe&mockup are present (3points).
The old wireframe does not contain the whole application flow. Don't forget that you are suposed to first make a wireframe and then make it look nice and colorful with the mockup. But you did straight away the mockup. The wireframe is missing a lot of parts of the app.
The screens are linked, and it is not clear how the pieces work together: how to get to the laundry machines screen? And the figma is not clear which one of "HomeScreen proposition 1" and "2" you want to use for the app.

For this part, you received 12 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

Ui elements are consistent.
The UI dapts to different sizes great! (btw the my rent page is getting behind the notch of an iPhone but we only grade for android).

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Yes CI is configured to run Sonar.
Yes CI passes.
Tests are not run by the CI! It is very important to make the CI run the tests!
You did not achieve a good coverage rate to get any points regarding the grading scheme (line coverage shown locally 21.95%). Note again that this number must be shown on github with the CI (https://sonarcloud.io/summary/overall?id=Swent-Fall-2024-team-10_leazy).
Watchout there are not really tests for ListIssueScreen.tsx for instance
Your repository (Firestore for now) has a "Functions tests" which is good
The login/signup have a meaningful unit test for the view-model
We considered that for M1 your test navigates to all screens is enough for e2e test, but watchout to make more meaningful action after navigation. So it actually tests the app reacting to actionrather than just testing the navigation.

For this part, you received 13 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

Yes application successfully builds.
Yes APK could be installed and run on a real device.

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

A minor bug is strange when we click on an issue it shows a page Issue not found... but we won't consider this as a bug because it did not crash the app
0 major bugs
0 crashes

For this part, you have been penalized 0 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

Your team retrospective is completed on time.
Standup retrospective is completed on time.
The sheets are completed thoroughly.

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

PB is up-to-date.
        PB: User stories for first epic are present.
        PB: User stories for second epic are present.
        S3B is up-to-date.
        S3B: Task assignments are clear.
                Sprint 3 Backlog: Tasks are assigned to >80% team members.
All tasks have been assigned.
All tasks have a time estimate.
All tasks have a priority.
        Scrum board is up-to-date for Sprint 3.

For this part, you received 20 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 4.75. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
