# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.


You implemented the majority of the chore features that allows tenants and landlords to interact. This accounts for more than two epics. However there are a few features that you couldn't implement like the calendar for the landlord or the google sign in that didn't end up in the final product. 

You fulfilled all the requirements of the course. However, we had some issues with the offline mode when testing. When launching the app in offline mode you would stay logged out without ways to log in without connection. You support multiples users and user interactions is the core of the app. You use cloud services in a meaningful way and the use of the camera and microphone are great

The features implemented are mostly complete, but there are a few issues with the UI, the washing machines UI for example isn't reactive and doens't adapt well to the device screen.


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


The app is resilient to bad inputs. We couldn’t make it crash or find any significant bugs during testing.

The APK is functional, but its performance could be improved. For instance, implementing optimistic updates for large objects on the database could reduce update times and make the app feel better.

The account management is great, we can edit everything even reset the password and the email and we can delete accounts. However we can't login with google auth. We know that it's not an easy thing to implement taking into account that you need additional informations from the ones you can retrieve from the google account, so you would need to modify the flow. That's a potential improvement.


For this part, you received 6.9 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


The user experience is good. There are a lot of features in the app and you need a bit of time to get the hang of it, but this is inherent to the type of app, which centralizes multiple administrative and organizational tasks. Overall, you've done a great job making it intuitive and approachable for newcomers despite. Maybe a small tutorial could make the user experience completly semeless.


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.


Overall, the codebase is of good quality, code is consistent with no apparent issues. However, not all parts of the code are well-documented, which can sometimes make it challenging to understand larger sections with very few comments. There are also a few maintainability issues pointed out by Sonar Cloud, most of them aren't significant, but still don't forget to address them.

Overall the architecture of the app is good. You to made some adjustments along the way (the navigation system is not great), but generally the chosen architecture allowed you to scale


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


The app is well tested throughtly by unit tests and end-to-end tests. You've archived more than 90% line coverage which is not easy in react native. However again the tests lack documentation sometimes, explaining the general scenario in comments generally greatly help understand and potentially modify the code

The CI runs the tests and the code analysis, however it doens't build the APK. In the state of right now it would be a bit hard for new developers to have a pipelined experiences developing on this repo.


For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


The README is well-written, but the wiki feels a bit minimal. In our opinion, it doesn’t provide enough clarity for new developers to understand how the app is structured, like for example the separation between landlords and tenants and how this is reflected in the code.

The Figma is good and up to date with the app. This is subjective, but there is maybe a bit of room for UI improvements. The architecture diagram is understandable. However, a more detailed diagram, maybe not done by hand, would probably benefit other developers for navigating and contributing to the project.


For this part, you received 3.3 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


You’ve become more independent and have integrated most of what the course aims to teach. However, I feel you were still a bit limited by the fact that everyone in the team acted at the same level. The Scrum Master should generally take more responsibility for managing and coordinating the team throughout the sprints.


For this part, you received 1.5 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 5.16.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.